# Beat Saber

***

## Where is the settings page?

***

Since the Archipelago mod for this game is still in active development, you will need to manually construct a .yaml yourself from the template generated by the Archipelago Launcher, or by downloading it from either the GitHub releases page, or the Beat Saber thread in the Future Game Design channel of the Archipelago Discord server.

## What does randomization do to this game?

***

In Beat Saber, songs are considered items and clearing a difficulty  is considered a location.
The player will start with a number of songs unlocked at the beginning of the multiworld.
Songs that are not part of the item pool are hidden from the player in the Song Select list while connected to an Archipelago server.

### Unimplemented features

An accuracy rank (SS, S, A, B, etc.) may need to be met to count a difficulty location as checked.
Multiple accuracy ranks may be considered locations within the same difficulty. When a difficulty is cleared, all locations for accuracy ranks below and including the rank the player got are considered checked.
Multiple options for Goals.
A dynamic, per-multiworld simulation of "Performance Points", similar to the ranking systems of [ScoreSaber](https://scoresaber.com/), [BeatLeader](https://beatleader.com/), or [HitBloq](https://hitbloq.com/).
Trap items.
Archipelago related functionality for Modifiers. (Slower Song, Faster Song, Ghost Notes, etc.)

## What is the Goal of Beat Saber?

***

There is currently only one implemented Goal in Beat Saber: to complete any difficulty of the final song in your item pool.
Future ideas for goals that *may* be implemented include:
- Complete a number or percentage of songs/difficulties from the item pool.
- Complete a randomly selected "Goal Level", unlocked by receiving a number or percentage of "Goal Level Unlock Items".
- Reach an amount of "Simulated Performance Points" across all songs in the item pool. (Simulated PP would be calculated as part of the Multiworld, and scores would not post to ScoreSaber or BeatLeader)
- Reach a Total Score across all songs in the item pool.

Not all of these Goals are guaranteed to be implemented.

## What Beat Saber items can appear in other players' worlds?

***

Any song that is included in the item pool that isn't a starter song can appear in other players' worlds.
Once Traps are implemented, they may also appear in other players' worlds.

## What is a Trap?

***

Traps are items intended to disrupt the player that replace non-progression filler items.
Beat Saber currently does not currently implement any traps.
There are several ideas for Traps that *may* be implemented in the future.

## What does another world's item look like in Beat Saber?

***

In Beat Saber, items do not have an appearance. They are automatically sent when completing a difficulty that would check a location.

## When the player receives an item in Beat Saber, what happens?

***

When the player receives a (Progressive) Song Unlock item, the relevant song appears in the Song Select list.
You may need to navigate to another menu and then navigate back to the Song Select list menu for it to properly update in some cases.

## Where do I run Archipelago commands?

***

Beat Saber does not have an in-game chat, so you will need to use the Text Client from the Archipelago Launcher.

### Hints

Archipelago's Hint system is available to a Beat Saber Player, however hints fall under Archipelago commands, so the Text Client is required to use them.

## Multiplayer

***

It is not possible to play Archipelago with in-game multiplayer Beat Saber through the Official Multiplayer servers, BeatTogether servers, or BSPlus/MultiplayerPlus servers.
No support for in-game multiplayer is planned.
It is possible to have multiple players playing Beat Saber in the same multiworld slot, but each person will be playing their own singleplayer instance of Beat Saber.
It is possible for multiple Beat Saber slots to be included in the same multiworld.

## What about DLC and Custom Songs?

***

OST, DLC, and Custom Songs are all supported.

### What about other map characteristics?

One Saber, No Arrows, 360 Degree, 90 Degree, and Legacy characteristics are all supported.
Lawless, Lightshow, and characteristics that are defined per-song do not have any special support or restrictions in Archipelago. There should be nothing stopping them from functioning normally.
- Lawless and per-song characteristic difficulties may be impossible to complete within the bounds of some Goals once more features and Goals are implemented, so take care when adding them to the item pool.
- Lightshow characteristic difficulties do not have playable notes, so there is little reason to add them to the item pool.

### What about MappingExtentions, Chroma, NoodleExtentions, Vivify, Poodles, etc.?

Maps that require additional mods to be installed to be played, referred to as "modcharts", do not have any special support or restrictions in Archipelago. There is no guarantee that the mods required to play them will work with Archipelago, but if you have the required mods installed they *should* work normally.

## Other mods

***

There is no special support or restrictions for other mods, but there is no guarantee that they will work with Archipelago, or that their features will work normally while connected to a multiworld.