# First time Archipelago
Here is a quick overview for everything you need to know as a first time player.

## Downloading from GitHub releases note
A lot of the tools will be downloaded from GitHub.  
To download them, go to the "Releases" tab on the right, then scroll down from the notes until you see the "asset" section containing a few files.  
Download the files, but not the "Source Code"!

## Archipelago Launcher installation
Open up and use the "Archipelago Launcher" whenever you are prompted to use a "Launcher" here!
1. Download and install the latest [Archipelago Launcher](<https://github.com/ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago/releases/latest>).
2. Make sure it properly installs (due to emulator modding tools some anti-viruses incorrectly mark the files as malware and prevent you from installing it)

## APWorld installation
APWorlds (files with .apworld ending) contain all the tools and logic for one specific game. While you might be able to avoid installing them locally, it's often preferred and sometimes necessary for some games to work.
1. Find the latest version of the APWorld  
2. Install the APWorld into the archipelago Launcher by double-clicking the .apworld file anywhere on your pc. It will automatically install in your Launcher (alternatively put the .apworld in the "custom_worlds" folder)
3. If it prompts you with an "APWorld installed" dialogue box, then you successfully installed it! You can then delete the .apworld

Make sure to reboot the Launcher after installing an APWorld!

## Create a yaml
Every player need to create a setting file referred to as the "yaml". There you can customize the randomization for your game. Each yaml represents one player playing.  
You can either create a yaml externally (f.e via the Archipelago website) or create it locally. If you create it locally you need to install the APWorld for your game if it's not in "Core".  
You can create a yaml by either using an Options Creator or create a template and edit the file.
### Options Creator
The Options Creator formats each setting to checkboxes and sliding bars. Make sure to check the description of the setting (found in the ?)!  
To use the Options Creator, either use a website (like the [Main Archipelago Website](https://archipelago.gg/)) or use the "Options Creator" found in the Launcher.
### Template editing
Editing your yaml via a template gives you a better overview over all settings and documentation.  
To do this, first generate a yaml by using the "Generate Template Options", then open the yaml with the name of your game and edit it directly.
### General yaml creation notes
- The most important setting in your yaml is the (slot) name. This will be your unique name which will identify you in the randomizer. Make sure to remember the slot name you choose, you will be asked to input it when you try connecting to your game!
- The "Progression Balancing" and "Accessibility" options and each option in the "Item & Location Options" tab are generated by default. It is recommended to keep them unmodified until you know more about them.
- The filename can be changed, as long as you keep the .yaml ending. It does not need to match your slot name, but it can help you remember it.
- The most important thing to remember about your yaml is your "name" or also referred to as you slot name. You will be asked for it when you try connecting to the game!
When editing a template, you will find each option in following syntax:
```yaml
setting_name:
  # Description and notes by the developer for the setting
  option_1: weight_value_1
  option_2: weight_value_2
``` 
Usually you want to select one option and put any value in it's respective weight value, while keeping all other options to 0
```yaml
setting_name:
  # I select option_1 here
  option_1: 10
  option_2: 0
```
For numbers, you put the selected number on the left and any value on the right (the random options are not recommended for your first time)
```yaml
setting_name:
  # I select a value of 4 here
  4: 10
  random: 0
  # other random options
```
If you have multiple non-zero values, it will select one randomly based on a weight-randomization-system  
## Generating and hosting a multiworld
Once you created all the yamls, one player will act as the "Host". The Host needs to:
- Generate a multiworld
- Host the multiworld
Everything in here is done *only* by the host!
### Generate a multiworld
The multiworld contains all the information about the randomization. This needs to be done most likely locally, but might be able to be done on a website if *all* APWorlds are included on the website.
1. Collect every yaml from each player, then put them into the "Players" folder. You can find it by using either "Browse Files" or "Generate Template Options" in the Launcher. Make sure that all files are directly inside the folder as any subfolder won't be included in the generation!
2. Install every APWorld used in the multiworld.
3. Use the "Generate" button in the Launcher.  

If a command line opens up, then shortly after closes, the generation was successful!  
You can find your generated multiworld inside the "output" folder in form of a zip. Do not unzip it!  
I recommend renaming it and then removing it from the output folder to remove confusion in later generations.

If the command line stop and doesn't go away, then an error has occured.  
Some common issues are:
- Version missmatch: Either the Launcher is outdated or the yaml version doesn't match the APWorld. Make sure to double check this when issues show up!
- Invalid yaml: The formatting of the yaml file might be incorrect. Regenerate and make sure to not mess up the indentation (text being shifted right by a specific amount of spaces)!
- Generation Failure: This can be caused by newer and more unstable APWorlds. You can sometimes try again and hope the error vanishes or wait for a newer release of the APWorld. 
### Host a multiworld
The easiest way is to go to the [Main Archipelago Website](https://archipelago.gg/) and use the [Host Game](https://archipelago.gg/uploads) tab to let the server host the multiworld free-to-use.  
Simply upload the zip file you generated previously and the server will show you an overview of your multiworld.  
Here you can download the spoiler file (which reveals all the randomization) and "Create a room".  
Once you "Create a Room", the server will host the game at ``archipelago.gg:port_number``. The exact port can be seen on the website, which the host can share with the players.  
Usually the host also want to share the room link (the website the room is at; looks something like: ``https://archipelago.gg/room/ROOMID``) with each player.
Unless you specify a password, each player can log into their game by using both the slot name and the address (usually both server address and port are combined, but sometimes you need to input them seperatly).  
You can also host locally by selecting the "Host" button in the Launcher and selecting your multiworld. Unless you do port forwarding, this will only allow the local computer to connect (so great for Singleplayer randomizers). You can get the address by either using your public ip with port forwarding or ``localhost:port_number`` without. You can find the port by looking at the terminal and searching for ``something:numbers``.
#### Some hosting things
- Only the player who created the room gets full access over the command line. Each other player only gets restricted access.
- The server will eventually go inactive if you don't collect items for a while. To reboot it, *any* player can open up the website with the room and the server reactivates.
- If you want to play the same randomizer again, you can go back to the seed and create a new room
## Setting up the Client/Mod
Finally, each player needs to set up their Client and Mod.  
The Client is where you input the address and slot name, and it acts as the connection between the server and your game.  
Each APWorld implements the Client/Mod differently, so make sure to look at the setup instructions given by the developer.  
You can usually find setup instructions in two places:
- The README.md which is the text displayed when you open a GitHub repository
- A custom setup guide supplied in the APWorld. If your game is supported by "Core", then you can find the setup guide in ``https://archipelago.gg/tutorial/``
### Client
A very common setup is the use of a "Text Client".  
These usually come included into the APWorld and you can find them inside your Launcher, usually with a similar name as the game.  
You can input the address in the top bar, press "connect", then input your slot name at the bottom.  
The Text Client will also show each pickup in its text feed.  

Some APWorlds include the Client into their mod. In these cases, follow the instructions of the setup guide

You can also run an empty Text Client with not mod communication by opening the "Text Client" in the Launcher.  
This Client can show a feed of all collected items in the multiworld, see your hints and run player commands

### Mod
To install the mod, follow the instructions on the setup page

Some games which use ROM's also add a patch file to the multiworld. You can find it on it in the room your are hosting.  
You then double-click to open it. When prompted, select "Archipelago Launcher" to open the file with. You can then select the emulator and ROM to use.  

For other patches where you need to apply a patch to your game, make sure that the file is not modded beforehand. On steam, you can reset the file by deleting it, then "validating your local files".

Manuals are a special type of APWorld which doesn't mod the game at all. You only need the Client.  
In those game you are expected to manually collect a check and manually restrict yourself from using any items you don't have.
