# Archipollago Setup Guide

## Install the AP World and Dependencies

1. Download and install the `archipollago.apworld`.
2. Download and unzip `apollago_packages.zip` to a temporary folder.
3. Navigate to the `<AP_INSTALL>/lib` directory.
4. Copy every file and folder inside the temporary folder and paste it into the `<AP_INSTALL>/lib` directory.
5. The Archipollago Client should start from the launcher.

## Setting up a Twitch Bot

A Twitch bot application id and application secret are required to set up polls in Twitch Chat.
1. Navigate to [The Twitch developer portal](https://dev.twitch.tv/).
2. Click `Create an Extension`.
3. Click `Applications`.
4. Click `Register Your Application`.
5. Enter a name and choose `Application Integration` or any other fitting category.
6. Enter `http://localhost:17563` `Under the OAuth Redirect URLs` field.
7. Set the `Client Type` to `Confidential`.
8. Click the Save Button.

## Running the Twitch Bot using the Archipollago Client

1. Go to the [Twitch developer portal](https://dev.twitch.tv/) and manage the Archipollago application setup in 
`Setting up a Twitch Bot`.
2. The `Client ID` should be pasted into the `Twitch Application ID` in the AP Client.
3. The `Client Secret` can be generated by clicking the `New Secret` button and pasted into 
the <br> `Twitch Application Secret` field.
4. The `Twitch Username` should be your channel's name (not the bot's name).
5. Connect to the Archipelago Server and click the `Start Twitch Bot` button.
6. The bot will begin running polls in your channel's Twitch chat.

## Troubleshooting

### The bot is running a poll using chat instead of Twitch's official polls
Only affiliates and partners have the ability to create Twitch official polls.
Text based polls are used if the official polls are unable to be run for any reason.

### There is an SSL error when trying to stop the bot
Close the client and run `ap_launcher_ssl_fix.sh` for Linux or `ap_launcher_ssl_fix.bat` for Windows.
These files should be placed into the Archipelago install directory.